in the previous video we talked about
stochastic gradient descent and how that
can be much faster than batch gradient
descent in this video let's talk about
another variation on these ideas called
mini batch gradient descent that can
work sometimes even if it faster than
stochastic gradient descent to summarize
the algorithms we've talked about so far
in batch gradient descent we will use
all em in each generation whereas in
stochastic gradient descent we will use
a single example in each iteration what
mini batch gradient descent does is
somewhere in between specifically what
this algorithm we're going to use be
examples in each iteration where B is a
parameter how the mini batch size so the
idea is that this is somewhat in between
batch gradient descent it's too costly
during descent and it's just like Baxter
in this end except that we're going to
use a much smaller batch size a typical
choice for the value of B might be B
equals 10 let's say and typical range
really might be anywhere from B equals 2
up to B equals 100 so that would be a
pretty typical range of values for the
mini batch size and the idea is that
rather than using one example at a time
or M examples I'm going to use B
examples at a time so let me just write
this out informally we're going to get
let's say B for this example let's say B
equals 10 Samia you know the next 10
examples from my training set so that
may be some set of examples X I Y I if
it's 10 examples then the indexing would
be up to X I plus 9
why i +99 so that's ten examples all
together and then we'll perform
essentially a gradient descent update
using these ten examples so that's the
learning rate times 1/10 times the sum
over k equals I through I plus nine of H
subscript theta of XK minus y k times x
k J and so in this expression we're
summing the gradient terms over my 10
examples so there's a number 10 that's
you know my mini batch size and just I
plus 9 again the 9 comes from the choice
of the parameter beat and then after
this we will then increase you know I by
10 to go on to the next 10 examples and
then keep living like this so just to
write out the entire algorithm in into
info in order to simplify the indexing
for this for 1 over the writer I'm going
to see we have a mini batch size of 10
and a training set size of a thousand
what we're going to do is have this sort
of 4 degree or for I equals 1 11:21 so
stepping in steps of 10 because we look
at 10 examples of the time and then we
perform this sort of a gradient descent
update using 10 examples at a time so
this 10 and this I plus 9
those are consequence having chosen my
mini batch size to be 10 and you know
this Ultimo's folder this ends at
9:1 here because if I have a thousand
training examples then I need a hundred
steps of size ten in order to get
through my entire training set so this
is mini-batch gradient descent compared
to batch gradient descent this also
allows us to make progress much faster
so we have again our running example of
US census data of 300 million training
examples then what we're saying is after
looking at just the first ten examples
we can start to make progress in
improving the parameters data so we
don't need to scan through the entire
training set we just need to look at the
first ten examples and this will start
letting us make progress and then we can
look at the second ten examples then
multiply the parameters a little bit
again and so on so that's why mini-batch
gradient descent can be faster than
batch gradient descent namely you can
start making progress in modifying the
parameters after looking at just ten
examples rather than leaving to wait
till your scan through every single
training example all 300 million of them
so how about mini batch gradient descent
versus stochastic gradient descent so
why do we want to look at the examples
at the time rather than look at just a
single example at a time as it's the
cost of unison
the answer is in vectorization in
particular mini batch gradient descent
is likely to outperforms the Casagrande
descent only if you have a good vector
rise implementation in that case the sum
over ten examples can be performed in a
more vectorized way which will allow you
to partially paralyzed your computation
over the 10 examples so in other words
by using appropriate vectorization to
compute the derivative terms you can
sometimes partially use the good
numerical linear algebra libraries to
parallelize your gradient computations
over the B examples whereas if you were
looking at just a single example the
time with stochastic great descent then
you know looking at just one example the
time there
much to paralyse over Lisa's left to
paralyse over one disadvantage of
mini-batch gradient descent is that
there's now this extra parameter V the
mini batch size which you may have the
federal event which may therefore take
time but if you have a good vectorized
implementation this can sometimes run
even faster than stochastic gradient
descent
so that was mini-batch gradient descent
which is an algorithm that in some sense
does something the somewhere in between
what's the constant gradient descent us
and what batch gradient descent us and
if you choose a reason without your B
I'll usually use B equals 10 but you
know other values anywhere from stay to
to 100 would be reasonably common so if
you choose a good value of B and then
you use a good vectorized implementation
sometimes it can be faster than both
stochastic gradient descent and faster
than batch gradient descent